---
layout: post
title: Syllabus
---

# Syllabus

<p>
<b>CSCI 111Q - 02, Fall 2014 &mdash; Introduction to Computing</b><br/>
<b>CSCI 111Q - 03, Fall 2014 &mdash; Introduction to Computing</b>
</p>

By the end of this class, you should be able to:

  - Write interactive media-rich programs using the Processing
    language.
  
  - Learn a new programming language by utilizing internet resources.
    
The first goal should be unsurprising. The second goal ensures you can
efficiently learn a new technical skill. You may forget how to program
in Processing, but hopefully you do not forget how to search the web
about techincal questions and understand (often inadequate)
documentation.

## About me

- Joshua Eckroth, [jeckroth@stetson.edu](mailto:jeckroth@stetson.edu)

- Eliz Hall 214-9, 386-740-2519

- Office hours: Mon 10-11am; Tue 12-1pm; Wed 11am-12pm; Thur 12-1pm

## Labs

We'll generally have one lab per week. Each lab assignment is a
programming assignment.

Submit your lab by adding your ZIP file to Blackboard. Due dates are
listed on the home page of this site.

Late work is penalized. Your maximum possible score on late work is
60/100. You can turn it in at any time (until the last day of
class). Submit late work to Blackboard, and send me an email telling
me you have done so, because I may not see it otherwise.

## Tests

We have three short tests. We have no "final exam." The tests are
hand-written, so you don't use a computer. You won't be asked to write
programs.

Test dates:

- Test 1: September 15

- Test 2: October 13

- Test 3: November 10

## Group projects

You will have two group projects. Each group has two members. You
share a grade for the project. Details about project requirements will
be provided later. You will be asked to create a small interactive
game in both cases (the first project will be simpler).

Rather than have a final exam during finals' week, we will have group
presentations for the second, larger project.

## Grading

<table>
<tr><td>Labs</td><td>30%</td></tr>
<tr><td>Test 1</td><td>10%</td></tr>
<tr><td>Test 2</td><td>10%</td></tr>
<tr><td>Test 3</td><td>10%</td></tr>
<tr><td>Group project 1</td><td>15%</td></tr>
<tr><td>Group project 2</td><td>25%</td></tr>
</table>

## Honor code

I want you to utilize the internet, and each other, to learn
Processing but also to learn how to learn. Outside the classroom,
everyone references to the internet, colleagues, and sometimes books,
to learn new technical material.

However, with regards to your lab assignments, you must indicate any
code that you copied, including the source web address of the
code. You are required to contribute most of the code in your lab; do
not turn in a lab mostly written by other people.

I am strongly in agreement with the
[Stetson University Honor Code](http://www.stetson.edu/other/honor-system/). Any
form of cheating is not acceptable, will not be tolerated, and could
lead to dismissal from the University. This includes plagiarism of any
sort on quizzes, exams, or on projects. So please, do not cheat!

## Academic success center

If a student anticipates barriers related to the format or
requirements of a course, she or he should meet with the course
instructor to discuss ways to ensure full participation. If
disability-related accommodations are necessary, please register with
the Academic Success Center (822-7127;
[www.stetson.edu/asc](http://www.stetson.edu/asc)) and notify the
course instructor of your eligibility for reasonable
accommodations. The student, course instructor, and the Academic
Success Center will plan how best to coordinate accommodations. The
Academic Success Center is located at 209 E Bert Fish Drive, and can
be contacted using the email address
[asc@stetson.edu](mailto:asc@stetson.edu).
