---
layout: post
title: Test 3 Guide
---

# Test 3 Guide

This guide is preparation for Test 3. It is not an assignment. Solutions are [posted](/guides/2015-12-01-test-3-guide-solutions.html). The test will cover only functions and classes, though arrays will appear in some questions. You will take the test on a computer, and submit on Blackboard.

**You may bring a 5x7 notecard with any notes you want (front & back), to use during the test.**

## Functions

1\. Create a small program that uses a function to draw a rectangle in the middle of the screen. This function should have no arguments and no return value.

2\. Create a small program that uses a function to draw a rectangle at a given x, y and width, height. These four values should be given to the function as arguments. The function has no return value.

3\. Write a function that returns the largest (max) number of its three arguments (all `float` values). You do not need to write an entire program to test the function (but you can if you wish).

4\. Write a function that returns the sum of all even values in an array of integers. Create an array in `setup()` and call this function from `setup()`. Save the result and print it (all in `setup()`).

## Classs

5\. If you see this code, `Xyz abc;` you can safely assume (in this class) that we are using object-oriented programming. Which of `Xyz` and `abc` is the class? Which is the object? What's a good synonym for "class" (in our usage)? What's a good synonym for "object"?

Here is a class:

{% highlight java %}
class Foo
{
  Foo()
  {
    println("A");
  }
  
  void f1()
  {
    println("B");
  }
  
  void f2()
  {
    println("C");
  }
}
{% endhighlight %}

6\. Which message, if any, is printed when we do this: `Foo myfoo;` And what about this: `myfoo = new Foo();` And finally, what about this:`myfoo.f2();`

7\. Which function is the constructor? Which message does the constructor print?

8\. Write the code necessary to declare and initialize an array of 200 `Foo` objects (instances).

Suppose we have this code:

{% highlight java %}
Baz b = new Baz("Claudia");
b.printMany(5); // prints "Claudia" five times, on separate lines
b.printMany(12); // prints "Claudia" twelve times, on separate lines
Baz c = new Baz("James");
c.printMany(3); // prints "James" three times, on separate lines
{% endhighlight %}

9\. Write a class that enables the code above to work as described. You must define this class with exactly seven lines of code, the minimum possible (as far as I know). We count lines of code by ignoring blank lines and lines with only `{` or `}`, and using the normal coding style we have seen in this class.

10\. When we are using objects, what is the most common cause of a "NullPointerException"?
