---
layout: post
title: Syllabus
---

# Syllabus

CSCI 111Q - 31, Fall 2017 &mdash; Introduction to Computing

Work hard in this class and you should be able to:

- **Write interactive media-rich programs using the Processing language.**

This class satisfies the "Q" Quantitative Reasoning General Learning Outcome: "Students can apply quantitative techniques to solve problems or analyze data, or can apply mathematical or symbolic reasoning to move from a set of assumptions to a conclusion."
  
## About me

- Joshua Eckroth, Assistant Professor of Computer Science, [jeckroth@stetson.edu](mailto:jeckroth@stetson.edu), [homepage](http://www2.stetson.edu/~jeckroth/)

- Eliz Hall 214, 386-740-2519

- Office hours: Mon 1-3, Tue 5:30-6, Wed 2-3, Thur 5:30-6

## Labs

We'll generally have one lab per week. Each lab assignment is a
programming assignment.

Submit your lab by adding your ZIP file to Blackboard. Due dates are
listed on the home page of this site.

Late work is penalized 20% for each day that it is late. Submissions
more than 3 days late receive no credit. Submit late work to Blackboard, and send me an email telling
me you have done so, because I may not see it otherwise. Tests cannot be made up unless a doctor's note is provided.

## Tests

We have three short tests. We have no "final exam," instead we have a final project. The tests are written and submitted on a computer.

Test dates:

- Test 1: Thur, 9/28

- Test 2: Thur, 11/2

- Test 3: Thur, 12/12

## Group projects

You will have two group projects. Each group has two members. You
share a grade for the project. Details about project requirements will
be provided later. You will be asked to create a small interactive
game in both cases (the first project will be simpler).

Rather than have a final exam during finals' week, we will have group
presentations for the second, larger project.

## Grading

<table>
<tr><td>Labs</td><td>40%</td></tr>
<tr><td>Test 1</td><td>10%</td></tr>
<tr><td>Test 2</td><td>10%</td></tr>
<tr><td>Test 3</td><td>10%</td></tr>
<tr><td>Group project 1</td><td>10%</td></tr>
<tr><td>Group project 2</td><td>20%</td></tr>
</table>

The grading scale will follow the typical A = 93-100, A- = 90-92, B+ = 87-89, etc.

## Calendar

- Week 0: Shapes, color
- Week 1: Animation, conditional statements
- Week 2: Keyboard and mouse input
- Week 3: Hurricane
- Week 4: Loops
- Week 5: Review and test 1, group project 1
- Week 6: Arrays
- Week 7: Graphics, sprites
- Week 8: Review and Test 2
- Week 9: Functions
- Week 10: Object-oriented programming
- Week 11: Physics
- Week 12: Physics
- Week 13: 2D transformations
- Week 14: 2D transformations
- Week 15: Review and Test 3
- Week 16: Work on group project 2, present on Thursday

## Honor code

I want you to utilize the internet, and each other, to learn
Processing but also to learn how to learn. Outside the classroom,
everyone references to the internet, colleagues, and sometimes books,
to learn new technical material.

However, with regards to your lab assignments, you must indicate any
code that you copied, including the source web address of the
code. You are required to contribute most of the code in your lab; do
not turn in a lab mostly written by other people.

I am strongly in agreement with the
[Stetson University Honor Code](http://www.stetson.edu/other/honor-system/). Any
form of cheating is not acceptable, will not be tolerated, and could
lead to dismissal from the University. This includes plagiarism of any
sort on quizzes, exams, or on projects.

## Academic success center

If a student anticipates barriers related to the format or
requirements of a course, she or he should meet with the course
instructor to discuss ways to ensure full participation. If
disability-related accommodations are necessary, please register with
the Academic Success Center (822-7127;
[www.stetson.edu/asc](http://www.stetson.edu/asc)) and notify the
course instructor of your eligibility for reasonable
accommodations. The student, course instructor, and the Academic
Success Center will plan how best to coordinate accommodations. The
Academic Success Center is located at 209 E Bert Fish Drive, and can
be contacted using the email address
[asc@stetson.edu](mailto:asc@stetson.edu).

