---
layout: post
title: Lab 5
due: Oct 22, 11:59pm
---

# Lab 5

Read the guide about [functions](/guides/2014-10-14-functions.html).

## Task

You have two options:

### Option 1

Take your game project and add functions. You don't have to improve the game, but you do need at least three functions (besides `setup`, `draw`, `keyPressed`, etc.):

- A `void` function that draws something. This function must be at least two lines of code. This function does not need an argument.
- A `void` function that does whatever but has at least one argument.
- A non-void function that calculates and "returns" something. This function must have at least one argument.

Make sure your game still works (or fix your game if it never did work!). Do not work with your group partner; you must complete this lab on your own.

Be sure to use these functions in the code (e.g., in the `draw` function). You will receive no credit if you add functions but never actually use them.

### Option 2

Modify the "candy catch" game in the [Game Design 1](/videos/2014-09-26-game-design-1.html) notes. You need at least three functions:

- A `void` function that draws the score on the screen. This function does not need any arguments.
- A `void` function that moves the basket (`px` variable). This function should have one argument which indicates how much to move it (positive or negative). Keep the `constrain` as found in the `keyPressed` function in the original code.
- A non-void function that returns a `boolean` indicating whether a particular candy has been caught. It should be given arguments for the candy location and the basket location. It should return `true` if the candy is caught, `false` otherwise.

Be sure to use these functions in the code (e.g., in the `draw` function). You will receive no credit if you add functions but never actually use them.


