---
layout: post
title: Lab 4
due: Mon, Sep 14, 11:59pm
---

# Lab 3

This lab is preparation for Test 1. You will take the test on a computer, and submit on Blackboard. You may see questions like these, and/or you may be asked to write simple programs.

**You may bring a 5x7 notecard with any notes you want (front & back),
to use during the test.**

Write you solutions to these questions in a text file or Word doc or whatever, and submit on Blackboard.

## Color

- what is the command to change to HSB mode?
- what is the code to set the fill/stroke/background color to white or
  black or very-light-gray in RGB mode? in HSB mode?
- what is the code to set the fill/stroke color to 50% transparent
  dark red in RGB mode?
- what is the code to set the background color to bright yellow or
  purple or cyan? (the three simplest combinations of two colors in
  RGB mode)
- what is the command to set a 10 pixel stroke?

Some of these questions have a range of valid answers since, e.g.,
"dark red" is open to some interpretation.

## Coordinate system and shapes

- what is the code to draw a 4x4 square in the middle of a 50x50 window?
- what is the code to draw a 4x4 square in the middle of a window of any size?
- what is the code to draw an ellipse that touches the four edges of a window of any size?
- what is the code to draw a rectangle that covers the entire window
  (and no more)?
- what is the code to draw an arc from 9 o'clock to 12 o'clock?
- what does a rectangle at `rect(0, 0, 200, 200)` in a 400x400 window
  look like in `CORNER` rectangle mode and what does it look like in
  `CENTER` rectangle mode?

## Variables and types

- what type should be used to hold the value 55 (not 55.0)?
- what type should be used to hold the value 55.5?
- what type should be used to hold the value "foo bar"
- what type should be used to hold the value of a single symbol that can be typed on the keyboard?
- what type should be used to hold the value true or false?

What is the result of each of the following computations?

{% highlight java %}
57 % 10
57 / 10
2.4 / 2.0
pow(3.0, 2.0)
{% endhighlight %}

If we have `int x = 5`, what is the value of `x` after each of these commands:

{% highlight java %}
x--;
x--;
x *= 2;
x++;
{% endhighlight %}

If we have `boolean q = true`, what is the value of `q` after each of
these commands:

{% highlight java %}
q = false;
q = true || q;
q = !q;
{% endhighlight %}

## Animation

Write the chunk of code (two functions) we will always include when we
start writing a program.

Identify which of the two following chunks of code properly moves a
triangle from the left of the screen to the right.

<table>
<tr>
<td>
{% highlight java %}
int x = 0;
int y = 200;

void setup()
{
    size(400, 400);
}

void draw()
{
    x--;
    background(0);
    triangle(x-50, y+50, x, y, x+50, y+50);
}
{% endhighlight %}
</td>
<td>
{% highlight java %}
int x = 0;
int y = 200;

void setup()
{
    size(400, 400);
}

void draw()
{
    background(0);
    triangle(x-50, y+50, x, y, x+50, y+50);
    x = x + 5;
}
{% endhighlight %}
</td>
</tr>
</table>

Complete this code so that the ellipse starts large but shrinks over
time (its size is allowed to become negative).

{% highlight java %}
int ________________;

void ________________
{
    size(400, 400);
}

void ________________
{
    background(255);
    ellipse(50, 100, ________________);
    
    __________________________;
}
{% endhighlight %}

## Conditionals

- Suppose some shapes are moving according to changing `x` and `y`
  variables. Write some `if` statements that wrap-around `x` and `y`
  on all sides of the window, without using the `%` (modulo) operator.

- Write some `if/else` statements that do the following: if `x` is
  greater than the middle of the window width, then show text on the
  screen that says `"Too far!"`, otherwise increase the value of `x`.

## Keyboard input

- Write a `void keyPressed()` function that decreases the value of `y`
  if you press the up key.

- Write a `void keyPressed()` function that sets `x` (a `float`
  variable) to a random value when the space bar is pressed.

## Mouse input

- Write a complete program that randomly changes the background color
  when the right mouse button is pressed.

- Write a complete program that draws ellipses wherever the mouse is
  clicked.

Rewrite and fix this broken code that is supposed to allow the user to
drag three differently-colored 100x100 rectangular puzzle pieces over
a blue background, and gives the message "Success!" when they are
lined up so that they are all near the middle of the screen and the
red is above the green, which is above the gray.

{% highlight java %}
int x1 = 50;
int y1 = 20;
int x2 = 125;
int y2 = 75;
int x3 = 200;
int y3 = 300;

void setup()
{
  size(400, 400);
  background(20, 20, 250);
  noStroke();
}

void draw()
{
  fill(250, 20, 20);
  fill(20, 250, 20);
  fill(75, 75, 75);
  rect(x1, y1, x2, y2)
  rect(x2, y2, y2, y2)
  rect(x3, y3, 100, 100)

  if(x1 > 150 && x1 < 250 || y1 > 50 && y1 < 150
   && x2 > 150 && x2 < 250 || y2 > 150 && y2 < 250
   && x3 > 150 && x2 < 250 || y3 > 250 && y3 < 350);
  {
    text("Success!", 350, 400)
}

void mousePressed()
{
  if(mouseX < x1 || mouseX > x1 || mouseY < y1 || mouseY > y1)
  {
    mouseX = mouseX + (x-pmouseX);
    mouseY = mouseY + (y-mouseyY);
  }
}
{% endhighlight %}

