---
layout: post
title: Lab 7
due: Wed Nov 1, 11:59pm
---

# Lab 7

This lab is preparation for Test 2. You will take the test on paper. You should expect to see questions like these.

**You may use your computer and the internet during the test (but not communicating with other class members or friends online).**

Write you solutions to these questions in a text file or Word doc or whatever, and submit on Blackboard.

## Loops

1\. Write a `for` loop that draws 100 ellipses (I don't care about the dimensions or locations of the ellipses).

<hr/>

2\. What is the value of `prod` after this loop is finished?

{% highlight java %}
int prod = 1;
for(int q = 2; q < 8; q = q + 2)
{
  prod *= q;
}
{% endhighlight %}

<hr/>

3\. Fill in the following blanks so that the loop sets an integer `k` to the values -10, -8, -6, ..., 6, 8, 10.

{% highlight java %}
for(______________; ______________; ______________)
{% endhighlight %}

<hr/>

4\. Write a `for()` loop that computes the sum of the numbers 500, 495, 490, ..., 10, 5. Save the sum into a variable called `sum`.

## Arrays

5\. Suppose we have an array with 97 values. What is the first array "position" or "index"? What is the last index?

<hr/>

6\. What is the first and last position of this array:

{% highlight java %}
int[] xyz = new int[100];
{% endhighlight %}

<hr/>

7\. What code will tell you the number of elements in some arbitrary array called `arr`?

<hr/>

8\. Create an array that can hold 100 decimal values. Don’t put any values in it.

<hr/>

9\. Create an array that can hold symbols from the keyboard. Don’t put any values in it.

<hr/>

10\. Using a loop, print in reverse all elements of the array arr, which holds integers. Don’t create the array.

<hr/>

11\. Create an array of 100 floats and, using two loops, fill the first 50 elements with the number 2.2, and the second 50 elements with the number 9.9.

<hr/>

12\. Suppose we have:

{% highlight java %}
int j;
String s;
float[] ww;
String[] t;
float r;
int[] z;
{% endhighlight %}

- What type is `s`?
- What type is `t`?
- What type is `r`?
- What type is `t[0]`?
- What type is `t[j]`?
- What type is `ww[3]`?
- What type is `ww`?
- What type is `ww[j]`?
- What type is `z`?
- What type is `ww[z[0]]`?
- What type is `ww[z[j]]`?

<hr/>

13\. Complete the following code so that the array `copy` is a copy of the array `original`, i.e., it is the same size and all elements have the same values in the same order.

{% highlight java %}
float[] original = new float[100];
// original is filled with values (code hidden)...

float[] copy = ______________________________;

for(int j = __________; _____________________; ______________)
{
    __________________________________________;
}
{% endhighlight %}


